TA022 
Julius Caesar Paper
Alexandra Berke
Due 10/29/12


	
	In Act II, Scene I of Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar, Brutus’ wife, Portia, makes an appeal to Brutus to divulge his secrets.  As his wife, she can tell that these new secrets of her husband are interrupting his health and her relationship to him, so Portia’s appeal is in both her and her husband’s best interest.  Portia makes this clear to her husband by effectively using logos, ethos, and pathos in her appeal.

	Portia begins her appeal with a long string of logos.  She explains all the reasons she can tell something is not right with her husband.  She lists her observations, such as his urgent needs to leave her company, whether in bed or at supper, the strangely agitated manner that has overcome him, as well as her observations of how his agitated state has kept him from properly eating and sleeping.  These observations serve as vital evidence that a secret is negatively overwhelming her husband.  Portia implies their validity as evidence by making it clear that a wife is acute to notice and understand a husband’s agitation.
	Brutus comes to his own defense, and brushes off Portia’s evidence as a mere indication that his is ill.  Portia uses strong logos to refute that statement.  She points out that if he were of bad health, then he would be taking measures to get well rather than avoiding sleep and food.

	Although her evidence is strong, Portia realizes that her husband is doubting her credibility as one to divulge a secret to.  She employs strong ethos to approach the problem of both lack of trust to keep a secret, but foremost, why she is the best candidate to hold his secrets.
	Portia reminds Brutus that it is she that Brutus declared his love for.  He declared her as the woman he wanted to spill his heart to, and naturally secrets would be included.  She goes on to present her job as wife to include caring for Brutus and talking to him to bear his emotional burdens; knowing his secrets, and emotionally guiding Brutus through them, is in her role as wife.  She strengthens her credibility further by reminding Brutus that she is well reputed and is the daughter of Cato.  
	Portia acknowledges Brutus’ apprehension of letting a secret slip and realizes she needs to present herself as not only the one whose role is to bear his secrets, but also as a credible secret keeper.  To do so she reminds Brutus of how she handled self-inflicting a wound to her thigh.  She states that she can therefore bear the pain of holding his painful secret.

	Portia’s argument is already strong by way of her use of logos and ethos.  However she additionally uses her role as wife and love of Brutus to insert pathos into her appeal to strengthen her argument further.
	From the start of her appeal, she summons Brutus’ attention away from his distractions towards her case by causing her husband to worry for her.  He notices she has risen from bed early and gets caught in her appeal by trying to attend to the fragile health of the woman he cares about.  With that ploy of pathos, Portia immediately has the attention of her audience, Brutus.  
	Portia then brings the attention back to Brutus.  She argues that the secrets he is keeping are preventing him from eating and sleeping properly, which will cause his health to suffer.  This should naturally be a personal concern of Brutus’, but when this use of pathos is not strong enough, she again shifts the attention back towards herself.  She kneels down to Brutus in a physical display of pathos.  She then pulls at Brutus’ heart by making the following argument.  
	Portia states that if Brutus was good to his dear wife, where good implies not withholding his attention nor his secrets, then she would not need to kneel before him.  His disinterest in confiding in her, and therefore merely seeking pleasure with her, brings his beloved wife’s role down to the status of harlot.  This final appeal has a clear effect on Brutus, since he does love and respect his wife.

	Portia is clever in how she formulates her case.  Instead of breaking into an attack from the beginning, she softens the mood by catching Brutus’ sympathy with her use of pathos and then uses strong logos by stating her concerns as evidence.  Throughout her argument she balances logos, ethos, and pathos in accordance with Brutus’ responses with success.  By the end of the act Brutus has been swayed and Portia has won her case.
